---
layout: post
title: "7th Guest Bishops Puzzle"
categories: [ games ]
tags: [ python scala ]
---

I was watching a stream of [The 7th Guest][1] the other day, and the
bishops puzzle caught my eye.  The idea is simple: on a 4x5 chess board,
place 4 white bishops on the leftmost column, and 4 black bishops
on the rightmost column. Then, make normal diagonal bishop moves--with the
restriction that you can't put a bishop in an attacked square--until
the bishops have switched places.

```
W---B        B---W
W---B  ---\  B---W
W---B  ---/  B---W
W---B        B---W
```

I thought it might be fun to solve the problem with a program, and
ended up writing programs in both python and scala.  Since the problem
space wasn't too large, and I wanted the shortest solution, I just
wrote a basic breadth-first search.

The programs are in my [2018 small programs repo][2].

If you just want to know: the game's 4x5 puzzle can be solved in 36 moves,
and I wrote the scala version to play arbitrary sizes.  A 4x7 puzzle can
be solved in just 24 moves!

## Some Observations

The hardest part of the program was working out all the squares a bishop
can touch efficiently.  I know real chess programs use bitboards, but I wanted
something more straightforward.  With a few minutes of thought, I worked out
geometrically what the two diagonal lines would be for any position on the board.

I had an idea early to create a higher-order function that calls a supplied
action for every square that a given bishop can touch.  It turned out to
be very useful--I used it both to determine which squares are attacked, and
also for generating prospective moves to try.

The scala version is about 7 to 10 times faster than the python one, even including
the JVM startup/warmup time. **But**, the
python one was faster to write, and slightly shorter.  So, for a problem of this
size, which I only plan to run a handful of times, I think python is a great choice.
I only did the scala version for comparison.

The scala version makes nice use of implicit parameters for the game context (size of board,
which positions we've already encountered, etc.).  In python, I just put these in globally
accessible objects.  So, even though I don't need to do things like concurrently solve
multiple boards or whatever, the scala code is ready for all of that by design.

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_7th_Guest
[2]: https://github.com/rwtodd/small_programs_2018


