---
layout: post
title: "Getting More Sleep"
categories: [ life ]
tags: []
---

I recently read an interesting article, "[Why Sleep Deprivation Kills][1]",
which reminded me how I rarely get enough sleep.  I remember reading a long
time ago in [Just for Fun][2] that Linus Torvalds sleeps a lot, and that's
always stuck with me for some reason.

On the internet, I've read it is best to force yourself to wake up at a
particular time every day, and let the time you go to sleep adjust itself to
that naturally.  It takes some time to adjust, because the body is full of
internal clocks that you can't change at will.

So I will try that, and log my progress in this post.  I plan to wake up
every day at 7AM, with the goal of eventually getting to sleep around 11PM.
My plan is to get into bed by 11:30 even if I'm not yet tired, and meditate
until sleep takes over.

## Journal ##

### Jun 10 (Day 1) ###

I had gone to bed around 3AM, and did not fall asleep immediately, so waking
at 7AM was pretty jarring.  Surely this will be the hardest day.  On top of
being dead tired, I have a dental cleaning scheduled for today.  My mood is
poor and I don't feel like doing anything mentally taxing.

When I was supposed to be going to sleep, around 11PM, I started to feel more
alert.  I went to bed anyway at about 11:19PM, and was asleep probably within
an hour or so.  I set the alarm for 7:30 to be nice to myself.

### Jun 11-12 (Day 2-3) ###

I actually woke up at 6, which may be a result of my body not expecting too
much sleep?  I'm not sure.  But, I stayed in bed until my alarm at 7:30.  I
felt ok in the morning, got tired around noon, and recovered.

The next day was pretty much the same.

### Jun 13 (Day 4) ###

Last night, I worked until 11PM, and did not get home until 11:30PM.  Once
home, I had a few things to do, so I didn't even try to sleep until 12:15.
So, to be nice to myself, I set my alarm for 8:15AM.  Sleep was ok, if not
immediate.  I'm dragging this morning, though.

I enjoy having the morning hours to work, although I used to enjoy having the
evening hours to work.  I don't think there's much of a difference, there.

### Jun 14 (Day 5) ###

Did not get a full night's sleep, as I went to sleep late, and then was
startled awake at 6:45AM.  Will try harder to get to bed on time tonight,
whether I am tired or not.


[1]: https://www.quantamagazine.org/why-sleep-deprivation-kills-20200604/?utm_source=pocket-newtab
[2]: https://archive.org/details/JustForFun

<!--
Local Variables:
fill-column: 77
End:
-->
